Add ``Beatmap Spotlights Revival: Spring 2025`` news post (#13107)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-04-08-beatmap-spotlights-revival-spring-2025.md

---
layout: post
title: "Beatmap Spotlights Revival: Spring 2025"
date: 2025-04-09 01:00:00 +0000
---

Haven't heard this name for a while? Check out all the major changes to Beatmap Spotlights! This time, we are also seeking fresh blood to ensure the project can run smoothly for many seasons to come!

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-04-08-beatmap-spotlights-revival-spring-2025/banner.jpg)

> It's been some time since we last met here indeed... let's examine what happened in the meantime, since there's certainly a lot to cover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's been some time since we last met here indeed... Let's examine what happened in the meantime, since there's certainly a lot to cover.
```

Even though the playlists are already up and running, we invite you to read on for the story about the new Beatmap Spotlights infrastructure, and the path that led us back to where we are today!

## A lengthy history lesson

> Heading into 2024, right after the conclusion of the Autumn 2023 season, the Beatmap Spotlights project was stopped for time being, due to an osu!(lazer) scoring rollout and infrastructure changes related to that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Heading into 2024, right after the conclusion of the Autumn 2023 season, the Beatmap Spotlights project was put on hold due to osu!(lazer) scoring and infrastructure changes.
```
a "scoring rollout" doesnt make sense?

> Some time passed, and alongside the introduction of [Daily Challenge](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-07-25-introducing-daily-challenges) in July 2024, discussions began about how they would coexist in the future. After some deliberation, it was decided that both projects would focus on different matters, and aim for a varying player base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some time passed, and alongside the introduction of [Daily Challenge](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-07-25-introducing-daily-challenges) in July 2024, discussions began about how that and Beatmap Spotlights would coexist in the future. After some deliberation, it was decided that both projects would focus on different matters, and aim for a varying player base.
```
spotlights isn't mentioned in the paragraph, so "they" is weird

Reviewer: i also don't know what "varying player base" means here. if "varying" supposed to be a different word for "different", it doesn't fit lol

With that, Beatmap Spotlights could run again. However, before that could happen, various parts of Spotlights infrastructure would need to see some change.

> The idea was to create a new, unified system for curating the beatmaps directly on the website, along with brand-new infrastructure to handle it, including live-updating rankings and seasonal divisions, extending on [previously implemented seasons backend](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/pull/9725).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea was to create a new, unified system for curating beatmaps directly on the website, along with brand-new infrastructure to handle it, including live-updating rankings and seasonal divisions, extending on [previously implemented seasons backend](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/pull/9725).
```

> While the idea was simple, it wouldn't be easy. At this point, intense work was ahead of every person involved in Beatmap Spotlights project. Since we are finally here, it means the goals set ahead of us were successfully achieved, and so we are excited to announce major changes influencing every single inch of Beatmap Spotlights workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the idea was simple, it wouldn't be easy. At this point, intense work was ahead for every person involved in the Beatmap Spotlights project. Since we are finally here, it means the goals set ahead of us were successfully achieved, and so we are excited to announce major changes influencing every single inch of the Beatmap Spotlights workflows.
```

Can't wait to hear what changed during the over-a-year-long pause? Be sure to read on below!

## New osu! website Beatmap Spotlights infrastructure

To kick things off, we'd like to introduce you to brand-new Beatmap Spotlights infrastructure implementations on the osu! website.

### Live seasonal score calculation & leaderboards

> The seasonal scoring is now calculated every time you submit a score. Alongside that, the Spotlights season pages now include a full seasonal leaderboard, with dynamically updating division tiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Seasonal scoring is now calculated every time you submit a score. Alongside that, the Spotlights season pages now include a full seasonal leaderboard with dynamically updating division tiers.
```

Want to see this in action? Submit a score in one of the playlists below and look up your name!

- [osu!](https://osu.ppy.sh/seasons/42)
- [osu!taiko](https://osu.ppy.sh/seasons/43)
- [osu!catch](https://osu.ppy.sh/seasons/44)
- [osu!mania](https://osu.ppy.sh/seasons/45)

### User profile seasonal division display

> That said, your division and seasonal rank placement won't be visible in the season listing only. As of now, we are introducing a seasonal statistics display on user profiles!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your division and seasonal rank placement won't be visible in the season listing only. As of now, we are introducing a seasonal statistics display on user profiles!
```

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-04-08-beatmap-spotlights-revival-spring-2025/division-profile.jpg)

When hovered, detailed statistics will be displayed, including your seasonal score and rank.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-04-08-beatmap-spotlights-revival-spring-2025/division-details.jpg)

## Project-level changes

> The other branches of the project came to see some changes just as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other branches of the project came to see some changes as well.
```

### Improved playlist system

> Back in the [August 2023](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-10-23-beatmap-spotlights-season-10-autumn-2023) season, we announced the end of playlist gimmicks, which were being used in previous seasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Back in the [August 2023 season](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-10-23-beatmap-spotlights-season-10-autumn-2023), we announced the end of playlist gimmicks, which were being used in previous seasons.
```

> While we don't foresee the gimmicks coming back due to various limitations, we still wanted to have the first playlist of each season be more distinct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we don't foresee the gimmicks coming back due to various limitations, we still want the first playlist of each season to be more distinct.
```

From now on, **Playlist A of each Beatmap Spotlights season will contain only recent beatmaps**. This is to let players discover modern gems, and to return to an older mode of operation for the Beatmap Spotlights: highlighting and rewarding fresh mapping masterpieces.

### Changes to Beatmap of the Season

> Extending on Playlist A reformulations, as described above, we'd like to introduce tweaks to the *Beatmap of the Season* awards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extending on Playlist A reformulations, we'd like to introduce tweaks to the *Beatmap of the Season* awards.
```

We used to run a voting between players and Beatmap Spotlight Curators, asking both groups for their favourite Beatmap included in the season.

Starting today, we'd like to split the Beatmap of the Season in two:

> 1. The Beatmap of the Season will be selected by Beatmap Spotlight Curators and will be announced alongside a season's launch in Playlist A. This makes the Beatmap of the Season a highlight for the most outstanding recent beatmapping creation (according to the curators), serving as an award and so-called spotlight for both the beatmap and its author.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Beatmap of the Season will be selected by Beatmap Spotlight Curators and will be announced alongside a season's launch in Playlist A. This makes the Beatmap of the Season a highlight for the most outstanding recent map (according to the curators), serving as an award and *spotlight* for both the beatmap and its author.
```

> 2. The *players' favourite* voting will still be hosted at the end of each season, including all the beatmaps selected for the season.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The *players' favourite* voting will still be hosted at the end of each season, including all beatmaps selected for the season.
```

The creator of both highlighted maps will receive 3 months of osu!supporter.

The curators' pick for the current Beatmap of the Season can be found in the [playlist listing](#playlists).

## How do I participate in Beatmap Spotlights League? {id=how-to-participate}

To participate in Beatmap Spotlights, grab yourself the latest version of the [osu!(lazer) client](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/download).

> Once you're done installing and logging into your account, head over to the `playlists` tab in the `play` section and find the Beatmap Spotlights lobbies, denoted by a little green bar. You can also toggle the filter to show only the Beatmap Spotlight playlists in the top-right corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you're done installing and logging into your account, head over to the `playlists` tab in the `play` section and find the Beatmap Spotlights lobbies, denoted by a little green `Spotlights` indicator. You can also toggle the filter to show only Beatmap Spotlight playlists in the top-right corner.
```

| Playlist C | Jun 4 - Jun 11, 2025 |
| Season conclusion | Jun 11, 2025 |

## Spring Season 2025 first playlists & Beatmap of the Season {id=playlists}

The preview videos for each of the playlists were provided by [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323).

### ![](/wiki/shared/mode/osu.png) osu! (led by [Lefafel](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2295850))

#### Beatmap of the Season

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-04-08-beatmap-spotlights-revival-spring-2025/4535239.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1836970#osu/4535239)

**[Lia - Tori no Uta (Luscent) \[Djulus' Insane\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1836970#osu/4535239)**, created by [Djulus](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4960893)\
*primarily suggested and described by [KnightC0re](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7894340)*

Let a wave of nostalgia run through you, as Djulus' Insane on Luscent's mapset of the 2-decade-old song *Lia - Tori no Uta* has been chosen as the map of the season!

Featured as the opening theme in Studio Key's visual novel and later adapted anime *AIR* back in the 2000s, the song has gained substantial popularity within the anime community, so much so it's still being mapped to this day!

> Of course, the map mirrors the nostalgic factor of the song as well, with the heavy usage of simple slider shapes, and the clean consistent distance of individual patterns, both reflective of past mapping conventions and limitations. The map also takes advantage of the slow nature of the song to create an interesting experience, having some spaced flowy patterns that fit perfectly with its low BPM — really makes you feel like you're soaring through the skies like a bird.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, the map mirrors the nostalgic factor of the song as well, with the heavy usage of simple slider shapes, and the clean, consistent distance of individual patterns, both reflective of past mapping conventions and limitations. The map also takes advantage of the slow nature of the song to create an interesting experience, having some spaced flowy patterns that fit perfectly with its low BPM — really makes you feel like you're soaring through the skies like a bird.
```

## Beatmap Spotlight Curator applications

None of this would be possible without our [Beatmap Spotlight Curators](https://osu.ppy.sh/groups/48)' hard work and efforts.

That being said, we are looking to expand the team in order to streamline the beatmap selection process.

Are you an experienced beatmapper, player, tournament mappooler, or a combination? Now is your time to shine! You can find the application form below, be sure to fill it in before **April 20, 2025** if you'd like to join the ranks of the Beatmap Spotlight Curators!

[**Click here to apply!**](https://forms.gle/MjGxXe8C3hY2vUHy9)

## Communication and announcements

As of today, communications for Beatmap Spotlights will be moved to the [osu! Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/ppy) entirely, and `#osu-spotlights` is the place to talk about everything related to Beatmap Spotlights.

You can also now opt-in to receive updates about seasons, playlists, and general announcements by assigning yourself the appropriate ping role in the `#welcome` channel.

## The future

> This marks the start of a new era for the Beatmap Spotlights project, we hope you enjoy these changes, and look forward to what comes next!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This marks the start of a new era for the Beatmap Spotlights project. We hope you enjoy these changes, and look forward to what comes next!
```

Be sure to let us know of any questions you have, ideas for next season, fixes, or opinions on our systems in the dedicated Beatmap Spotlights osu! Discord channel.

> Now go ahead and set some scores, see you in the playlist lobbies!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now go ahead and set some scores. See you in the playlist lobbies!
```

---
layout: post
title: "Beatmap Spotlights Revival: Spring 2025"
date: 2025-04-08 23:00:00 +0000
---

> Haven't heard this name for a while? Check out all the major changes to Beatmap Spotlights! Are you interested in helping out with the project? This time, we are also seeking fresh blood to ensure the project can run smoothly for many seasons to come!

Author: it's for the post preview on the home page, could probably use something more smooth, but it's just to let people know we are opening apps along with this one as well

> Haven't heard this name for a while? Check out all the major changes to Beatmap Spotlights! Are you interested in helping out with the project? This time, we are also seeking fresh blood to ensure the project can run smoothly for many seasons to come!

Author: i changed it a little bit, think it works better that way

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-04-08-beatmap-spotlights-revival-spring-2025/banner.jpg)

> It's been some time since we last met here indeed... let's examine what happened in the meantime, since there surely is a lot to cover.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's been some time since we last met here indeed... let's examine what happened in the meantime, since there's certainly a lot to cover.
```

> It's been some time since we last met here indeed... let's examine what happened in the meantime, since there surely is a lot to cover.

Author: dunno, doesn't feel as bad to me?

Even though the playlists are up and running already, we invite you to read on for the story about the new Beatmap Spotlights infrastructure, and the path that led us to this very day below!

> ## A lengthy history lession

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## A lengthy history lesson
```

> Heading into 2024, right after the conclusion of the Autumn 2023 season, the Beatmap Spotlights project was halted by the development team, due to an osu!(lazer) scoring rollout and infrastructure changes related to that.

Author: https://ptb.discord.com/channels/90072389919997952/1083320217259749376/1187330902733361182

> Heading into 2024, right after the conclusion of the Autumn 2023 season, the Beatmap Spotlights project was halted by the development team, due to an osu!(lazer) scoring rollout and infrastructure changes related to that.

Author: tweaked it a bit either way

> Heading into 2024, right after the conclusion of the Autumn 2023 season, the Beatmap Spotlights project was halted by the developement team, due to an osu!(lazer) scoring rollout and infrastructure changes related to that.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Heading into 2024, right after the conclusion of the Autumn 2023 season, the Beatmap Spotlights project was halted by the development team, due to an osu!(lazer) scoring rollout and infrastructure changes related to that.
```

> Some time passed, and alongside the [introduction of Daily Challenges](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-07-25-introducing-daily-challenges) in July 2024, internal discussions arose about how the projects would coexist in the future. After some team-wide deliberations, it was decided that they would both focus on different matters, and aim for a varying playerbase.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Some time passed, and alongside the [introduction of Daily Challenges](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-07-25-introducing-daily-challenges) in July 2024, internal discussions arose about how the projects would coexist in the future. After some team-wide deliberations, it was decided that they would both focus on different matters, and aim for a varying player base.
```

> Some time passed, and alongside the [introduction of Daily Challenges](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-07-25-introducing-daily-challenges) in July 2024, internal discussions arose about how the projects would coexist in the future. After some team-wide deliberations, it was decided that they would both focus on different matters, and aim for a varying player base.

Reviewer 5: "it was decided that they would both focus on different matters, and aim for a varying player base."

This is an incomplete thought. Focus on what? What player bases?

> With that, the Beatmap Spotlights could run again. However, before that happens, various parts of Spotlights infrastructure would need to see some change.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
With that, Beatmap Spotlights could run again. However, before that could happen, various parts of Spotlights infrastructure would need to see some change.
```

> Back in September 2024 then, meetings were held and plans were drawn, and as a result the [Beatmap Spotlight Curators](https://osu.ppy.sh/groups/48) were met with a relatively simple announcement: the new goal was to stop using spreadsheets and scripts to run the Beatmap Spotlights, for sake of both smoother internal workflows, and enhanced player experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Back in September 2024 then, meetings were held and plans were drawn, and as a result the [Beatmap Spotlight Curators](https://osu.ppy.sh/groups/48) were met with a relatively simple announcement: the new goal was to stop using spreadsheets and scripts to run the Beatmap Spotlights, for the sake of both smoother internal workflows, and enhanced player experience.
```

> Back in September 2024 then, meetings were held and plans were drawn, and as a result the [Beatmap Spotlight Curators](https://osu.ppy.sh/groups/48) were met with a relatively simple announcement: the new goal was to stop using spreadsheets and scripts to run the Beatmap Spotlights, for sake of both smoother internal workflows, and enhanced player experience.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Back in September 2024, meetings were held and plans were drawn, and as a result the [Beatmap Spotlight Curators](https://osu.ppy.sh/groups/48) were met with a relatively simple announcement: the new goal was to stop using spreadsheets and scripts to run the Beatmap Spotlights, for sake of both smoother internal workflows, and enhanced player experience.
```
I would just remove this entire section. "We had a ton of important meetings, and as a result we pinged people" what purpose does this serve?

Author: used to cover more meaning before Wala's rewordings so can indeed remove for now

> Back in September 2024 then, meetings were held and plans were drawn, and as a result the [Beatmap Spotlight Curators](https://osu.ppy.sh/groups/48) were met with a relatively simple announcement: the new goal was to stop using spreadsheets and scripts to run the Beatmap Spotlights, for sake of both smoother internal workflows, and enchanced player experience.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Back in September 2024 then, meetings were held and plans were drawn, and as a result the [Beatmap Spotlight Curators](https://osu.ppy.sh/groups/48) were met with a relatively simple announcement: the new goal was to stop using spreadsheets and scripts to run the Beatmap Spotlights, for sake of both smoother internal workflows, and enhanced player experience.
```

The idea was to create a new, unified system for curating the beatmaps directly on the website, along with brand-new infrastructure to handle it, including live-updating rankings and seasonal divisions, extending on [previously implemented seasons backend](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/pull/9725).

> While the idea was simple, it wouldn't be easy. At this point, intense work was ahead of every person involved in Beatmap Spotlights project. Since we are finally here, it means we succeeded, and so we are excited to announce major changes influencing every single inch of Beatmap Spotlights workflows.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
While the idea was simple, it wouldn't be easy. At this point, intense work was ahead of every person involved in Beatmap Spotlights project. Since we are finally here, it means we succeeded, and so we are excited to announce major changes influencing every single inch of Beatmap Spotlights workflows.
```
"Since we are finally here, it means we succeeded". Succeeded in what? Incomplete thought.

> While the idea was simple, it wouldn't be easy. At this point, intense work was ahead of every person involved in Beatmap Spoltights project. Since we are finally here, it means we succeeded, and so we are excited to announce major changes influencing every single inch of Beatmap Spotlights workflows.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
While the idea was simple, it wouldn't be easy. At this point, intense work was ahead of every person involved in Beatmap Spotlights project. Since we are finally here, it means we succeeded, and so we are excited to announce major changes influencing every single inch of Beatmap Spotlights workflows.
```

> Can't wait to hear what changed during the over-a-year-long pause? Be sure to read on below!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

Redundant of last line of previous section.

Author: dunno, seems fine to me as a transtition towards the next section

Reviewer: it does feel redundant idkman

## New osu! website Beatmap Spotlights infrastructure

To kick things off, we'd like to introduce you to brand-new Beatmap Spotlights infrastructure implementations on the osu! website.

### Live seasonal score calculation & leaderboards

> The seasonal scoring is now calculated live, every time you submit a score. Alongside that, the Spotlights season pages now include a full seasonal leaderboard, with dynamically updating division tiers.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The seasonal scoring is now calculated every time you submit a score. Alongside that, the Spotlights season pages now include a full seasonal leaderboard, with dynamically updating division tiers.
```
"live" is redundant.

> Want to see this in action? Submit a playlist score and look up your name in the designated game mode leaderboard!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Want to see this in action? Submit a score in one of the playlists below and look up your name!
```

- [osu!](https://osu.ppy.sh/seasons/42)
- [osu!taiko](https://osu.ppy.sh/seasons/43)
- [osu!catch](https://osu.ppy.sh/seasons/44)
- [osu!mania](https://osu.ppy.sh/seasons/45)

### User profile seasonal division display

That being said, your division and seasonal rank placement won't be visible in the season listing only. As of now, we are introducing a seasonal statistics display on user profiles!

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-04-08-beatmap-spotlights-revival-spring-2025/division-profile.jpg)

> When hovered, detailed statistics will be displayed, including seasonal score and rank.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When hovered, detailed statistics will be displayed, including your seasonal score and rank.
```

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-04-08-beatmap-spotlights-revival-spring-2025/division-details.jpg)

## Project-level changes

> While not as radical, the other branches of the project came to see some changes just as well.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The other branches of the project came to see some changes just as well.
```

### Improved playlist system

> Back in the [August 2023](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-10-23-beatmap-spotlights-season-10-autumn-2023) season, we announced the end of playlist gimmicks, which were starting to be used in some previous seasons.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Back in the [August 2023](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-10-23-beatmap-spotlights-season-10-autumn-2023) season, we announced the end of playlist gimmicks, which were being used in previous seasons.
```

> While we don't foresee the gimmicks coming back due to various limitations, we still wanted to have the first playlist of each season be more distinct and one of a kind.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
While we don't foresee the gimmicks coming back due to various limitations, we still wanted to have the first playlist of each season be more distinct.
```
"one of a kind" is redundant.

> Therefore, from now on, **the Playlist A of each Beatmap Spotlights season will contain only recent beatmaps**. This is to both let players discover modern beatmapping gems, and to return to an older mode of operation for the Beatmap Spotlights: highlighting and rewarding fresh mapping masterpieces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, from now on, **Playlist A of each Beatmap Spotlights season will contain only recent beatmaps**. This is to both let players discover modern beatmapping gems, and to return to an older mode of operation for the Beatmap Spotlights: highlighting and rewarding fresh mapping masterpieces.
```

> Therefore, from now on, **the Playlist A of each Beatmap Spotlights season will contain only recent beatmaps**. This is to both let players discover modern beatmapping gems, and to return to an older mode of operation for the Beatmap Spotlights: highlighting and rewarding fresh mapping masterpieces.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
From now on, **Playlist A of each Beatmap Spotlights season will contain only recent beatmaps**. This is to let players discover modern gems, and to return to an older mode of operation for the Beatmap Spotlights: highlighting and rewarding fresh mapping masterpieces.
```
Fixed a bit of this but probably just needs to be rewritten for the ending.

### Changes to Beatmap of the Season

Extending on Playlist A reformulations, as described above, we'd like to introduce tweaks to the *Beatmap of the Season* awards.

> So far, we used to run a voting between players and Beatmap Spotlight Curators, asking both groups for their favourite Beatmap included in the season.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We used to run a voting between players and Beatmap Spotlight Curators, asking both groups for their favourite Beatmap included in the season.
```

Starting today, we'd like to split the Beatmap of the Season in two:

1. The Beatmap of the Season will be selected by Beatmap Spotlight Curators will be announced alongside a season's launch in Playlist A. This makes the Beatmap of the Season a highlight for the most outstanding recent beatmapping creation (according to the curators), serving as an award and so-called spotlight for both the beatmap and its author.

> 2. The *players' favourite* voting will still be hosted at the end of each season, including all of the beatmaps selected for the season.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. The *players' favourite* voting will still be hosted at the end of each season, including all the beatmaps selected for the season.
```

> The creator of both highlighted maps will receive 3 months of osu!supporter, which is the same as it used to be in the past.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The creator of both highlighted maps will receive 3 months of osu!supporter.
```

> The curators' pick for the current Beatmap of the Season can be found further below in the [playlist listing](#playlists).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The curators' pick for the current Beatmap of the Season can be found in the [playlist listing](#playlists).
```

## How do I participate in Beatmap Spotlights League? {id=how-to-participate}

> To participate in the Beatmap Spotlights, go grab yourself the latest version of the osu!(lazer) client from [this download page](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/download).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To participate in Beatmap Spotlights, grab yourself the latest version of the [osu!(lazer) client] (https://osu.ppy.sh/home/download).
```

> Once you're done installing and logging into your account, head on over to the `playlists` tab in the `play` section and find the Spotlights lobbies, denoted by a little green bar. You can also toggle the filter to show only the Spotlight playlists in the top-right corner.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Once you're done installing and logging into your account, head over to the `playlists` tab in the `play` section and find the Beatmap Spotlights lobbies, denoted by a little green bar. You can also toggle the filter to show only the Beatmap Spotlight playlists in the top-right corner.
```

Changing game modes is as simple as clicking one of the four mode icons at the top left of your screen — and it'll be whatever game mode you played last on osu!(lazer) by default.

## Season schedule

| Event | Time |
| --: | :-- |
| Season start | Apr 8, 2025 |
| Playlist A | Apr 8 - Apr 22, 2025 |
| Playlist B | Apr 22 - May 6, 2025 |
| Playlist C | May 6 - May 20, 2025 |
| Playlist A | May 20 - May 27, 2025 |
| Playlist B | May 27 - Jun 3, 2025 |
| Playlist C | Jun 3 - Jun 10, 2025 |
| Season conclusion | Jun 10, 2025 |

## Spring Season 2025 first playlists & Beatmap of the Season {id=playlists}

> The preview videos for each of the playlists were provided by [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323), thanks for your efforts!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The preview videos for each of the playlists were provided by [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323).
```
This isn't a message to Noffy.

### ![](/wiki/shared/mode/osu.png) osu! (led by [Lefafel](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2295850))

#### Beatmap of the Season

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-04-08-beatmap-spotlights-revival-spring-2025/4535239.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1836970#osu/4535239)

**[Lia - Tori no Uta (Luscent) \[Djulus' Insane\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1836970#osu/4535239)**, created by [Djulus](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4960893)\
*primarily suggested and described by [KnightC0re](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7894340)*

Let a wave of nostalgia run through you, as Djulus' Insane on Luscent's mapset of the 2-decade-old song *Lia - Tori no Uta* has been chosen as the map of the season!

> Featured as the opening theme in Studio Key's visual novel and later adapted anime *AIR* back in the 2000s, the song has gained substancial popularity within the anime community, so much so it's still being mapped to this day!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Featured as the opening theme in Studio Key's visual novel and later adapted anime *AIR* back in the 2000s, the song has gained substantial popularity within the anime community, so much so it's still being mapped to this day!
```

### ![](/wiki/shared/mode/mania.png) osu!mania (lead by [Crumpey](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3518705))

#### Beatmap of the Season

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-04-08-beatmap-spotlights-revival-spring-2025/4404687.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2099753#mania/4404687)

**[Ludicin - Everlasting Eternity (Critical\_Star) \[\[7K\] Timeless\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2099753#mania/4404687)**, created by [Critical\_Star](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3793196)\
*primarily suggested and described by [Maxus](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4335785)*

Behold: what you see here is a masterpiece. How often do you see a full marathon spread with storyboard and keysounds combined with an extremely complex and smoothly charted-out map, requiring unfathomable amounts of knowledge and experience to pull such results off?

Critical_Star has been well known in the entire osu!mania community for his expertise in mapping and ranking 7K charts countless times. However, this mapset is undoubtedly THE best grand set that he has produced throughout his mapping career.

> Charting a Ludicin song is usually a complex task due to the tiebreaker-style songs with a lot of genres combined, especially in 7K. The chart offers many pattern variations that represent both the fast and slow pace of the music, with well thought-out long note placements, hybrid combinations with tech aspects of rice and chordstreams that emphasize the music and contrast between every section. The beauty of the storyboard and keysound also complement that extremely well.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Charting a Ludicin song is usually a complex task due to the tiebreaker-style songs with a lot of genres combined, especially in 7K. The chart offers many pattern variations that represent both the fast and slow pace of the music, with well-thought-out long note placements, hybrid combinations with tech aspects of rice and chordstreams that emphasize the music and contrast between every section. The beauty of the storyboard and keysound also complement that extremely well.
```

> Without a doubt, this boss chart deserves its place as the top spotlight pick and we are confident that it will bring you along for the best of experiences and most most rewarding of rides!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Without a doubt, this boss chart deserves its place as the top spotlight pick, and we are confident that it will bring you along for the best of experiences and most rewarding of rides!
```

- [A.SAKA - Nanatsu Issenzakura (YyottaCat) \[\[5K\] Lencten Blostma \<Spring Blossoms\>\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2194881#mania/4643973), suggested by [Antalf](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8793773)
- [siromaru - Imperial Prime Aggression (AHHHHHHHHHHHHHH) \[\[4K\] Extra\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2089498#mania/4571836), suggested by [Carpihat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10085090)
- [X JAPAN - Kurenai (Alptraum) \[\[4K\] Crying in deep red\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2101873#mania/4409471), suggested by [Carpihat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10085090)
- [Camellia - We Could Get More Machinegun Psystyle! (And More Genre Switches) (Rio1-) \[\[6K\] Relentless\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2211806#mania/4685601), suggested by [Antalf](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8793773)
- [Ludicin - Everlasting Eternity (Critical\_Star) \[\[7K\] Timeless\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2099753#mania/4404687), suggested by [Maxus](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4335785)

Playlist B, C and D will be available on the [Beatmap Spotlights article](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights) as we open the playlist lobbies, so stay tuned!

## Beatmap Spotlight Curator applications

> None of this would be possible without our [curators](https://osu.ppy.sh/groups/48)' hard work and efforts.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
None of this would be possible without our [Beatmap Spotlight Curators](https://osu.ppy.sh/groups/48)' hard work and efforts.
```

> That being said, we are looking towards expanding the team further in order to make picking the beatmaps more deliberate and effective.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
That being said, we are looking to expand the team in order to streamline the beatmap selection process.
```
What does adding more people have to do with how deliberate your picking strategy is?

Are you an experienced beatmapper? An outstanding player? An exceptional mappooler? A mix of each? Now is your time to shine! You can find the application form below, but be sure to fill it in before <!-- deadline --> if you'd like to join the ranks of the Beatmap Spotlights Curators, putting a brick in the project's years-long history!

[**Click here to apply!**](https://forms.gle/MjGxXe8C3hY2vUHy9)

> ## New communication and announcement system

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Communication and announcements
```
System?

> As of today, communications about Beatmap Spotlights will be moved to the [osu! Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/ppy) entirely.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As of today, communications for Beatmap Spotlights will be moved to the [osu! Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/ppy) entirely, and `#osu-spotlights` is the place to talk about everything related to Beatmap Spotlights.
```

> `#osu-spotlights` is your room to talk about everything related to Beatmap Spotlights.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

> You can also now opt in for news about seasons, playlists and all sorts of general announcements regarding the project by assigning yourself a ping role in `#welcome` channel.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can also now opt-in to receive updates about seasons, playlists, and general announcements by assigning yourself the appropriate ping role in the `#welcome` channel.
```

## The future

> That surely was a lengthy news post. It definitely marks the start of a new era for the Beatmap Spotlights project.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This marks the start of a new era for the Beatmap Spotlights project.
```
Best I could do. Please rewrite this entire line.

Author: actually kinda swapped order of this section, think it works better now

> What do you want for the next season? What needs to be fixed? What are your opinions on the current system? Be sure to let us know in the comments or sparkle a talk in the dedicated Spotligths osu! Discord channel.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
What do you want for the next season? What needs to be fixed? What are your opinions on the current system? Be sure to let us know in the comments or sparkle a talk in the dedicated Spotlights osu! Discord channel.
```

> We do hope you enjoy the brand-new implementations, and of course, we do hope that you stay with us for a long while.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We hope you enjoy these changes, and look forward to what comes next!
```
Also best I could do, maybe just remove this entire line.

Now go ahead and set some scores, see you in the playlist lobbies!

> 
> ---
> 
> Join us over at the [osu! Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/ppy) and assign yourself to a pingable role to keep up with changes and announcements. You can also find out more about the [Beatmap Spotlights](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights) on the osu! wiki.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```
This literally already exists on line 253. Just add the wiki part to that.

Author: just reduced this to osu wiki for this very paragraph
